docs: blog article on implementing cfcognito and githubidp modules (#94)
hamlet-io/docs: blog/2021-02-10-spas-with-github-authentication-made-easy.md

---
title: SPAs with Github Authentication Made Easy
author: rossmurr4y
author_url: https://github.com/rossmurr4y
---
import Admonition from 'react-admonitions';

# Github OAuth on an SPA with Hamlet Modules
Single Page Applications - or SPAs as they are more commonly called - are everywhere nowadays, alongside them on their rise in popularity are the numerous app frameworks that allow anyone to spin up and deploy a fresh one in a matter of minutes, often for for little or no cost. However, not every SPA is intended to be public. Adding authentication to an SPA is considerably greater in complexity than the SPA alone. Thankfully, this is where Hamlet Modules really shine.

In this article, I will be stepping through the process of using two of the recently published Hamlet modules - _cfcognito_ and _githubidp_. Used alongside a Hamlet Solution for a typical SPA deployment into AWS, these modules will include everything necessary to restrict access to your SPA with Github.

> - - - -

Author: ```suggestion
- - - 
```

---
title: SPAs with Github Authentication Made Easy
author: rossmurr4y
author_url: https://github.com/rossmurr4y
---
import Admonition from 'react-admonitions';

# Github OAuth on an SPA with Hamlet Modules

> Single Page Applications - or SPAs as they are more commonly called - are everywhere nowadays, alongside them on their rise in popularity are the numerous app frameworks that allow anyone to spin up and deploy a fresh one in a matter of minutes, often for for little or no cost. However, not every SPA is intended to be public. Adding authentication to an SPA is considerably greater in complexity than the SPA alone. Thankfully, this is where Hamlet Modules really shine.

Author: cheers, updated

> In this article, I will be stepping through the process of using two of the recently published Hamlet modules - _cfcognito_ and _githubidp_. Used alongside a Hamlet Solution for a typical SPA deployment into AWS, these modules will include everything necessary to restrict access to our SPA with Github.

Author: yep, ill pull one from the diagrams provider if that works?

Asking rather than doing because the diagrams plugin has run into the same component-loading issue I was having yesterday with the `sharedtest` provider, only I can't seem to fix this one by specifying my providers. I'll get the diagram in once we've resolved that ticket.

> In this article, I will be stepping through the process of using two of the recently published Hamlet modules - _cfcognito_ and _githubidp_. Used alongside a Hamlet Solution for a typical SPA deployment into AWS, these modules will include everything necessary to restrict access to our SPA with Github.

Reviewer: Was thinking of a more simple mermaid diagram like in the hello hamlet or in https://docs.hamlet.io/blog/2021/01/13/template-deploys

> In this article, I will be stepping through the process of using two of the recently published Hamlet modules - _cfcognito_ and _githubidp_. Used alongside a Hamlet Solution for a typical SPA deployment into AWS, these modules will include everything necessary to restrict access to our SPA with Github.

Author: Added a diagram in https://github.com/hamlet-io/docs/pull/94/commits/b40f7306e4a377921e3ab1e9671697085f1d0b67

Before we get started, let’s cover off what you need prior to following along.

# Prerequisites

> You will need to have configured a Hamlet Tenant, Account(s) and Product for our SPA, and have deployed all the “out-of-the-box” deployment-units.

Author: Added :)

The Hamlet Modules used here are going to restrict access to your chosen **Github Team** in a specific **Github Organisation**. Select an appropriate one to test with, and note them down as you'll need them shortly.

> Within your selected Github organisation you will need to register a new [OAuth Application](https://docs.github.com/en/developers/apps/creating-an-oauth-app). Enter a placeholder Callback URL for the time being, we’ll update it along the way. Generate a clientSecret that we can use within our Solution.

Author: Updated

```bash
APPLICATION_UNITS=<MODULE_ID>-lambda

# Code Properties
<PRODUCT>_<MODULE_ID>_LAMBDA_CODE_REPO=github-idp

# Where:
#	◦	<MODULE_ID> is the id parameter value in the module
#	◦	<PRODUCT> is the Id of our product in upper case
``` 

The following environment variables will need to be updated with your details in the [Jenkins pipeline template](https://github.com/gs-gs/github-idp/blob/master/hamlet/pipelines/Jenkinsfile-exmaple): 

```groovy
    environment {
        product_cmdb = '<product CMDB repo url>'
        properties_file = '<product pipeline properties file>'
        GITHUB_CREDENTIALS = credentials('github')
        ENVIRONMENT = params['environment']
        SEGMENT = '<segment>'
    }
```

With that out of the way, let’s get on with it!

# Starting Solution

> Here’s our initial Solution configuration. We’ve added the Plugins, but the modules within them are not yet configured. Our `mgmt` tier has the definition for a single `userpool` I’ve simply called “pool” which currently has no **AuthProviders** or **Clients** (sub-components) - they’ll come later. And in the `web` tier I’ve configured a bare-bones `spa` component.

Author: Good idea, I think what I had was more a reflection of me working out my steps than actually what needed to be conveyed.

                "Priority" : 200,
                "Required" : true,
                "Source" : "git",
                "Source:git" : {
                    "Url" : "https://github.com/gs-gs/github-idp",
                    "Ref" : "v0.0.3",
                    "Path" : "hamlet/githubidp"
                }
            }
        }
    },
    "Tiers": {
        "mgmt" : {
            "Components" : {
                "pool" : {
                    "userpool" : {
                        "deployment:Unit" : "pool",
                        "Instances" : {
                            "default" : {}
                        },
                        "VerifyEmail" : false,
                        "DefaultClient" : false,
                        "Schema" : {
                            "email" : {
                                "DataType" : "String",
                                "Mutable" : true,
                                "Required" : true
                            }
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

:::warning
Remember to remove the comments in the JSON file if copying from the examples here

> :::

Author: Updated https://github.com/hamlet-io/docs/pull/94/commits/70177efd0b5f3b91983d61a4f5c3dd549ef8733d

> Keen eyes may notice that I’ve not configured a `cdn` yet. This will be provided by our _cfcognito_ module, so we’ll start to see it’s deployment-unit once the module has been configured.

Author: I included it because for anyone following along that might have an existing static site, they will run into the original problem I had - they likely already have a `cdn` configured and deployed and trying to use it won't work. 

They'll want to remove it at this point in things too, rather than later in the article when we configure the 2nd module - there is a lot of back-tracking involved.

Does that make sense or still think we can remove?

> Keen eyes may notice that I’ve not configured a `cdn` yet. This will be provided by our _cfcognito_ module, so we’ll start to see it’s deployment-unit once the module has been configured.

Reviewer: I think if the blog is starting from an empty solution its probably best to leave it out. Part of this blog is highlighting that modules add components right?

```bash
# from the Product's Segment dir
hamlet @ ~/cmdb/cmdb/dir/msw-cmdb/indocsrm/config/solutionsv2/integration/default
master└─ $ $GENERATION_DIR/setup.sh 
(Info) Generating outputs:
(Info)  - generationcontract
(Info)  ~ no change in generationcontract detected
(Info)  - plugincontract
(Info) Differences detected:
(Info)  - updating loader-generation-contract.json
(Info)  - updating loader-plugincontract.json
(Info) Loading plugins from contract...
(Info) [*] id:cfcognito - name:cfcognito
(Info) [*] id:githubidp - name:githubidp
```

:::note
If you haven't already deployed the initial Solution, do that now before continuing.

```bash
hamlet deploy run-deployments
```
:::

## Configuring Modules :  githubidp
Our two Plugins not only extend the capabilities of Hamlet, they both include Hamlet Modules - pre-configured sections of a Solution that are layered underneath our Solution.

We’ll first configure the _githubidp_ module, which adds an `apigateway` and `lambda` components to our Solution. The `lambda` contains a number of functions that will perform the necessary authorisation steps for our SPA.

> Add the following to the Solution to configure the module  (non-relevant configuration is trimmed from the example) :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the following to the Solution to configure the module  :
```
Lets trim no relevant bits form the blog post too :)

Author: 😄 

Whilst I agree (and somewhat saw this coming) I think there's an argument to be made about explaining that the example isn't "complete". It's like stepping through an instructional book on programming. At some stage the author explains to you that the terminal prompt with be excluded from examples for formatting purposes.

However, that said - In explaining this just now I think my above comment stands for "tutorials", but is unnecessary for the type of documentation in a "blog" - they need to be brief and lean.

I have thus removed it 👍🏻

                        "Key" : "cognitoLink",
                        "Value" : {
                            "Tier" : "mgmt",
                            "Component" : "pool",
                            "Instance" : "",
                            "Version" : ""
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    },
    "Tiers" : { /*...*/ }
}
```

Let’s briefly review the parameters we’ve provided to the module:

- `id` - This will become part of the name for components and deployment-units within the module.
- `tier` - which tier the components defined within should be created within.
- `githubClientId` - the Github OAuth Application client ID defined on the Github Org you want to restrict access to.
- `githubClientSecret` - the clientSecret generated on the Github OAuth Application.
- `githubOrg` - the Github organisation that the restricted group belongs to.
- `githubTeams` - the Github Team within the specified organisation that should be authenticated.
- `cognitoLink` -  a link to our existing `userpool` component. This links the components in our Solution to those within the module.

## Update Solution

> With the _githubidp_ module configured, we can now update our original `userpool` to include  `userpoolauthprovider`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the _githubidp_ module configured, we now configure our `userpool` to include  `userpoolauthprovider`.  
```

Author: Updated

                        "Schema" : {
                            "email" : {
                                "DataType" : "String",
                                "Mutable" : true,
                                "Required" : true
                            }
                        },
                        "AuthProviders" : {
                            "githubidp" : {
                                "Profiles" : {
                                    "Deployment" : "<id>_githubprovider" /* update */
                                }
                            }
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

With that done, let’s deploy our updated configuration and new deployment-units. We should deploy the `lambda` followed by the `apigateway` (as the API it deploy uses the `functions` as a backend) and then finally the updated `userpool`.

```bash
# where <id> is the value for the `id` parameter you've configured
hamlet deploy run-deployments -u <id>-lambda 
hamlet deploy run-deployments -u <id>-apigateway
hamlet deploy run-deployments -u <userpool-deployment-unit>
```

:::info

> The Module we are using includes externally sourced files for both the `lambda` and `apigateway`, so you do not need to provide these yourself.

Reviewer: I think the Github lambda function is the one that needs the build job. In that case they aren't externally sourced

Author: updated

:::

> ## Configuring Modules: cfcognito

Reviewer: Probably need an explanation of what this one does. I.e. It enables OIDC compliant authentication at the Cloud front layer. This allows you to use Cognito to provide coarse ( i.e. in our out ) level access to all content behind the Cloud front distribution.

Author: Thanks for the wording - I've updated

                            "Component" : "spa",
                            "Instance" : "",
                            "Version" : "v1"
                        }
                    },
                    "userpool" : {
                        "Key" : "userpoolClientLink",
                        "Value" : {
                            "Tier" : "mgmt",
                            "Component" : "pool",
                            "Client" : "door"
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    },
    "Tiers" : { /* ... */ }
}
```

Reviewing each of the parameters here, we have:

- `id` - the value you provide here will determine the name of the deployment-units that come along with the module, and will be important to remember when it comes to creating links to the module.
- `tier` - the tier that the components within the module should be created within.
- `originLink` - a link configuration to tell the module what we’re going to use as the `cdn` origin - in this case that’s our `spa`.
- `userpoolClientLink` - a link to a `userpoolclient` - we haven’t created one of those - we’ll do it now.

## Update Lambda Region

> This module includes a lambda ( deployment unit `<id>_lmb`) that must be specifically deployed into the **us-east-1** (the “global” region for AWS). For this to happen we must override any other Region configuration you may have, but only for this one component. The below example will apply it product-wide, only for the component with an `id` of `door-lmb`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module includes a lambda ( deployment unit `<id>_lmb`) that must be specifically deployed into the **us-east-1** (required for cloudfront Lambda@Edge). For this to happen we must override any other Region configuration you may have, but only for this one component. The below example will apply it product-wide, only for the component with an `id` of `door-lmb`:
```

Author: cheers, updated

```json
{
  "Solution" : { /* ... */ },
  "Product" : {
    "door-lmb" : {
      "Region" : "us-east-1"
    }
  },
  "Tiers" : { /* ... */ }
}
```

## Update Solution

> As this module adds the `cdn` into our Solution, we can now include our `userpoolclient` sub-component on our `userpool`. So that it picks up the Callback URL information for the `cdn`, we need to provide a Link on it to the `cdn` component configuration inside of the Module. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As this module adds the `cdn` into our Solution we now need to add a  `userpoolclient` sub-component on our `userpool` which will be used cloudfront to access the userpool. So that it picks up the Callback URL information for the `cdn`, we need to provide a Link on it to the `cdn` component configuration inside of the Module. 
```

Author: cheers, updated

```json
{
    "Tiers": {
        "<tier-value>": {
            "Components": {
                "<id-value>" : {
                    "cdn" : {
                        "Certificate": {
                            "Host": "<hostname>", /* update */
                            "IncludeInHost": {
                                "Host": true,
                                "Environment": false,
                                "Segment": false,
                                "Product": false,
                                "Tier": false,
                                "Component": false,
                                "Instance": false,
                                "Version": false
                            },
                            "IncludeInDomain": {
                                "Segment": false,
                                "Product": false,
                                "Environment": false
                            }
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

> And with that, your Single Page Application should be secured behind Github OAuth!

Reviewer: I think its probably better to leave out the certificate. Otherwise you'll need to cover generating them or link to somewhere that explains that

Reviewer: Also Since its a demo, I'd suspect that the cloudfront Url is good enough
